the US is ramping up pressure on Israel
for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza in a
turnaround of its position Secretary of
State Anthony blinkin is expected in Tel
Aviv on Friday to drive home this
message to Israeli leaders he's been on
a diplomatic Blitz of the Middle East
his sixth trip to the region since the
War Began with hamas's terror attack on
Israel on October 7th he'll arrive just
hours before the US submits a draft to
the UN Security Council calling for an
immediate and sustain
ceasefire here's blinkin speaking in
Egypt yesterday there's a clear
consensus around a number of shared
priorities first the need for an
immediate sustained ceasefire with the
release of hostages uh that would create
space to Surge more humanitarian
assistance to
relieve uh the suffering of many people
and to build something more
enduring now the ceasefire that we're
working on would be the best most
immediate way to enable us to Surge
humanitarian assistance but it's not the
only way uh we agreed today all of the
ministers that we would get our experts
together in the coming days uh to
identify the Urgent practical and
concrete steps that Kenan should be
taken to increase the flow of
assistance Israel needs to do
more let's get more on this from the
region our correspondent Tony Kramer is
in Jerusalem and journalist kareim El
guari is in Cairo Kareem to you first
the US Secretary of State is plying on
to Israel later today how are his
efforts to get a ceasefire in Gaza being
seen where you
are well um the Egyptians and the Karis
who are the mediators are pretty tight
lipped blink himself said yesterday that
uh we're getting closer to a deal the
gaps are closing without giving any more
details but the fact that they're going
to meet today in Doha again in Qatar
with the head of the Egyptian of the
Israeli mosad intelligence means that
there is something on the table that all
sides find worth uh negotiating about uh
but what is also interesting in this
meeting yesterday in Cairo and that was
not only with the Egyptian foreign
minister but with foreign ministers and
officials of six Arab countries
yesterday and there is a consensus
between the US and the Arab states that
first there needs to be an immediately
and sustainable ceasefire but also that
there needs to be a massive increase of
Aid coming in and maybe what's most
interesting and consensus about what
should happen after the war that there
should be uh the Arab states basically
offer an integration of Israel into the
a region for a Palestinian States and
that is something the US is agreeing
with that's the old land for peace
formula uh but of course it's very
difficult to achieve with the current
right-wing Israeli government
Tanya what kind of Welcome is Anthony
blinkin likely to get from Israeli
leaders when he arrives there
today well I mean he's scheduled to meet
with prime minister Benjamin nanyo and
other members of the uh smaller War
cabinet and this comes of course after a
lot of public back and forth between the
US Administration and this uh current
Israeli government mainly between
President Joe Biden and prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu but also other
American officials being uh you know
very critical of Israel's war conduct
now of course uh the us remain uh
Israel's closest Ally and also their
main supporter when it comes to military
aid but there have been tensions and
that is closely watched here in Israel
now these talks will center around as
far as we understand you know that the
Americans have said we want to see more
Aid as we heard coming into Gaza we want
to see more protection of civilians they
also want to talk about this planned
military operation in Rafa where the
Americans are saying there must be other
ways to defeat Hamas while protecting uh
civilians but also of course the talks
in Doha that are going on we heard that
uh from the Israeli Prime Minister's
office they're saying that the head of
the mosad is on its way there so there
might be some movement that is also very
CL closely watched
here Kareem the US is trying to assert
itself self in dealing with the Middle
East now in a way that it hasn't for
years it's very trying to be very
engaged diplomatically but how much
leverage does the United States in the
right now in the form of its US
Secretary of State there have in the
region well give let's give you an
example next week the Israeli Minister
of Defense Galant is due in Washington
with a wish list of more weapons uh they
want to get and here is exactly the
leverage there is billions of dollars of
Financial and military aid from the US
uh to uh uh to Israel uh one of the most
immediate things would be the ammunition
for offensive operations in Gaza but
until now Biden is not willing to use
this leverage until now we have
basically only words uh public words of
more criticism towards Israel but no
action when it comes to the the aid
military and financial aid to Israel and
that's the biggest leverage any country
has over Israel right now Tanya talk to
us about the new UN resolution that's
being put forth by the US's Security
Council resolution uh this calls for an
immediate sustained ceasefire in Gaza a
vote could come within hours how is this
being seen in
Israel yeah once again I think this is
also being closely watched because in
the past you know month we've seen the
US veto uh um un Council resolutions or
abstaining and and basically um
shielding in a way Israel uh from those
resolutions and now this one this draft
emphasizes first and foremost you have
to say the need for an immediate and
sustained ceasefire to protect civilians
to allow more Aid and also to alleviate
uh suffering as it says but also it aims
to secure the ceasefire in connection
with the release of hostages now the
wording here is uh very important for
some it is still not strong enough
others said it might pass and of course
the international pressure on Israel is
uh increasing with this but we have to
wait and see how Israel will respond to
it it has in the past not always adhered
to such
resolutions Tanya kareim thank you very
much that was our correspondent Tanya
Kramer in Jerusalem and Kareem alui in
Cairo